# Change Log

## v0.10 - August 21, 2020

API changes:

- Added `Proto.Promises.{CancelationSource, CancelationToken, CancelationRegistration}` structs which can be used for synchronous cancelation callbacks.
- Added optional `CancelationToken` parameter to `Promise.{Then, Catch, CatchCancelation, ContinueWith, Progress, Sequence, NewDeferred}`.
- Added `Promise(<T>).Deferred.New(CancelationToken)` that does the same thing as `Promise.NewDeferred(<T>)(CancelationToken)`.
- Changed Deferreds to structs with an implicit cast to DeferredBase (`DeferredBase.ToDeferred(<T>)()` to cast back explicitly).
- Removed `DeferredBase.Cancel`, replaced with the cancelation token.
- Removed `Promise.{Cancel, ThenDuplicate}`.
- Removed `Proto.Logger`, replaced it with `Promise.Config.WarningHandler`.

Behavior changes:

- Changed `Promise.First` to suppress rejections from any promises passed in that did not result in the rejection of the returned promise.
- Change `Deferred.Reject(null)` to convert to a `NullReferenceException` on any `T`. This means `Promise.Catch<T>` will never give a null value. This more closely matches normal `throw null;` behavior.
- `CancelationSource.Cancel(null)` now converts cancelation to a non-value. This mean if `Promise.ReasonContainer.ValueType` is not null, `Promise.ReasonContainer.Value` is also not null, and if `Promise.ReasonContainer.TryGetValue<T>` succeeds, the value will not be null.
- Removed requirement to include `Proto.Promises.Await` for awaiting promises in an async function.
- Check to make sure `RethrowException` is used properly, change to `InvalidOperationException` if not.

Optimizations:

- Deferreds are now structs, removing the memory overhead of classes.
- Added a static cached `Promise.Canceled()` void in RELEASE mode.
- When canceled, promises are now unlinked from their previous.
- No longer need check if promise is canceled when doing internal operations.
- Removed skipFrame calculations since that's now handled in `Internal.FormatStackTrace` in DEBUG mode.
- Pass by ref to pass large structs around internally more efficiently.
- Changed delegate wrappers to structs and changed internal promises to use generics with constraints to optimize composition (and use less memory in some promise objects).
- `PromiseMethodBuilder` caches `stateMachine.MoveNext` directly instead of lambda capturing.

Misc:

- Removed recursive type definitions so that Unity 2019.1.14 and older on .Net 4.X scripting runtime version will compile.
- Removed PROTO_PROMISE_CANCEL_DISABLE preprocessor checks since cancelations no longer slow down normal execution.
- No longer check for internal promise invoking when accessing `Promise.{RejectException, CancelException}`.
- Consolidated Rejection and Cancelation value container creations. Handle all internal rejection/cancelation types to not wrap them.
- Renamed asmdefs to include Proto in the names. Removed Utilities.asmdef.

Known Issues:

- A `Promise.Progress` callback subscribed to a promise chain where the chain is broken by a cancelation token and continued with `Promise.ContinueWith` reports incorrect progress (introduced in v 0.9 with `Promise.ContinueWith`).
