# Change Log

## v2.0.0 - March 7, 2022

Enhancements:

- Full library thread-safety with minimal locks.
- Added `CLSCompliant(true)` to the assembly.
- `Promise<T>.ResultContainer` now has an implicit conversion to `Promise.ResultContainer`.
- Added `Promise<T>.{All, Race, First, New, NewDeferred, Resolved, Rejected, Canceled}`.
- Added `Promise.DeferredBase.AsDeferred(<T>)`.
- Added optional `valueContainer` parameter to `Promise<T>.All` functions to be used instead of allocating a new list.
- Added `Deferred.{TryResolve, TryReject, TryReportProgress}`.
- Added `Deferred.{Cancel, TryCancel}`.
- `Deferred`s now implement `IProgress<float>` and `ICancelable`.
- Added `CancelationSource.TryDispose` and `CancelationSource.TryCancel` methods.
- Added `CancelationToken.TryRetain`.
- Added `CancelationToken.TryRegister`.
- Added `CancelationRegistration.Token` property.
- Added `CancelationRegistration.GetIsRegisteredAndIsCancelationRequested(out bool)` and `CancelationRegistration.TryUnregister(out bool)`.
- Added `CancelationToken.(Try)Register<TCancelable>(TCancelable cancelable) where TCancelable : ICancelable`.
- Added static `CancelationToken.Canceled()` to get a token already in the canceled state without allocating.
- Added `Promise(<T>).Progress<TProgress>(TProgress progressListener, ...) where TProgress : IProgress<float>)` overload.
- Added `Promise(<T>).WaitAsync(SynchronizationOption)` and `Promise(<T>).WaitAsync(SynchronizationContext)` to schedule the next callback/await on the desired context. (Continuations now execute synchronously without `WaitAsync`.)
- Added `Promise.Config.ForegroundContext` and `Promise.Config.BackgroundContext` to compliment `SynchronizationOption`s.
- Added `Promise.Run` static functions.
- Added `Promise.SwitchToForeground()`, `Promise.SwitchToBackground()`, and `Promise.SwitchToContext(SynchronizationContext)` static functions.
- Added synchronization options for `Promise.Progress` and `Promise.New`.
- Added `Promise.AwaitWithProgress(float minProgress, float maxProgress)` API to propagate the progress to an `async Promise(<T>)` function.
- Added circular promise chain detection when awaiting a `Promise(<T>)` in an `async Promise(<T>)` function in DEBUG mode.

Optimizations:

- Promises are now structs, making already resolved promises live only on the stack, increasing performance.
- Optimized progress to consume less memory.
- Decreased cost of garbage collecting promises when object pooling is disabled.
- Optimized `async Promise(<T>)` functions in Unity 2021.2 or newer when IL2CPP is used.
- Optimized `async Promise(<T>)` awaiting another `Promise(<T>)` to hook up directly instead of creating a passthrough object.
- Eliminated potential `StackOverflowException`s from `async`/`await` continuations when both the `async` function and the `await`ed object are `Promise(<T>)`.

Breaking Changes:

- `Promise` and `Promise<T>` are now readonly (c# 7.3+) structs instead of classes (`Promise<T>` has an implicit cast to `Promise`).
- `Promise.{ResultContainer, ReasonContainer}` and `Promise<T>.ResultContainer` are now readonly ref structs (c# 7.3+).
- Added `Promise(<T>).{ContinueAction, ContinueFunc}` delegates to deal with ref structs, and changed signature of `Promise(<T>).ContinueWith` to use them.
- `Promise(<T>).GetAwaiter()` now return `Proto.Promises.Async.CompilerServices.PromiseAwaiter(<T>)`.
- Removed `PromiseYielder.ClearPooledObjects` as its pool is now controlled by `Promise.Config.ObjectPoolingEnabled` and `Promise.Manager.ClearObjectPool`.
- Removed `Proto.Utils` namespace.
- Continuations (`await` keyword or `promise.Then(callback)`) now execute synchronously by default. Use `Promise.WaitAsync()` to execute on a different context or asynchronously.
- Changed `PromiseYielder`'s `public static Promise<TYieldInstruction> WaitFor<TYieldInstruction>(TYieldInstruction)` to `public static Promise WaitFor(object yieldInstruction, MonoBehaviour runner = null)`.
- Removed `Promise(<T>).ResultType`.
- Changed behavior of `Promise.CatchCancelation` to return a new promise and behave more like `Promise.Catch`, where `onCanceled` resolves the returned promise when it returns, or adopts the state of the returned promise.
- Removed cancelation reasons.
- Deprecated with error `Promise(<T>).{Retain, Release}`, added `Promise(<T>).{Preserve, Forget, Duplicate}`.
- Deprecated with error `Deferred(<T>).{State, Retain, Release}` (can no longer check the completed state of a Deferred, only whether it's still pending).
- Deprecated with error all functions in `Promise.Manager` with error except `ClearObjectPool`.
- A rejected promise awaited in an async function now throws the original exception, if the promise was rejected with an exception.

Minor Changes:

- Object pooling is enabled by default.
- Changed `Promise.DeferredBase.ToDeferred(<T>)` to throw if the cast fails.
- Adjusted `CancelationRegistration.{IsRegistered, TryUnregister}` to return false if the token has been canceled and the callback not yet invoked. (Can no longer unregister callbacks once the source has been canceled.)
- Updated `Promise.New` to cancel the returned promise if the resolver throws an `OperationCanceledException`.
- `CancelationSource.Token` no longer throws (may return a token whose `CanBeCanceled` is false).
- Changed `Promise.Finally` to overwrite current rejection if an exception is thrown (follows same behavior as normal try/finally blocks).
- Renamed `ElementNullException` to `InvalidElementException`.
- Removed `PromiseDisposedException`.
- Removed `CancelException`, replaced with already existing `CanceledException`.
- `Promise.Progress` now returns a new promise that inherits the state (instead of returning the same promise).
- Progress `Obsolete` attributes are now warnings instead of errors when progress is disabled.
- Changed behavior of `Deferred.ReportProgress` to do nothing when progress is disabled.
- Changed behavior of `Promise.Progress` to return `Duplicate` when progress is disabled.
- If `Promise.Config.UncaughtRejectionHandler` is null, uncaught rejections will now be thrown as `AggregateException` in the `ForegroundContext`, or in the background if it's null.
- Changed behavior of cancelations to suppress rejections.

Deprecated:

- `Promise.Manager.ObjectPooling` deprecated, replaced with `ObjectPoolingEnabled`.
- Deprecated `Deferred(<T>).IsValid`, replaced with `IsValidAndPending`.
- Deprecated `Promise.Config.WarningHandler`.

Misc:

- In Unity, moved ProtoPromise from `Third Party` to `Plugins`.
- Renamed `Scripts` folder to `Core`.
- Added support for installing from a git url in Unity's package manager. https://github.com/timcassell/ProtoPromise.git?path=ProtoPromise_Unity/Assets/Plugins/ProtoPromise
- Added `InvalidArgumentException`.
- Fixed FormatStacktrace in Unity when a stack frame is captured that it can't inspect.
- Added `PromiseSynchronizationContext` and updated `PromiseBehaviour` to utilize it.
- Changed `UnreleasedObjectException` to `UnobservedPromiseException` when a promise is garbage collected without being awaited or forgotten.