# Change Log

## v3.3.0 - January 27, 2025

Enhancements:

- Added `Proto.Timers`.
	- `Timer` and `TimerFactory`
- Added `Promise.Delay` APIs.
- Added `Promise(<T>).WaitAsync` APIs with timeouts.
- Added delayed cancelation APIs to `CancelationSource`.
	- `CancelationSource.New(TimeSpan, (optional) TimerFactory, (optional) linked token(s))`
	- `CancelationSource.CancelAfter(TimeSpan)`
- Added `CancelationToken(bool)` constructor.
- Added `CancelationToken.RegisterWithoutImmediateInvoke` APIs.
- Added `PromiseYielder.Initialize()` API to help with early code running before Unity can auto initialize.

Fixes:

- Fixed Unity initialization not being fully initialized before user `Awake` methods run.

Optimizations:

- `Promise(<T>).ConfigureAwait(ContinuationOptions)` consumes zero memory if `Promise.Config.AsyncFlowExecutionContextEnabled` is disabled (which is the default state).
- Reduced memory of `async Promise(<T>)`.
- Reduced memory of async synchronization primitives
- Reduced memory of `Promise.ParallelFor*` APIs.
- Reduced memory of `Channel`s.
- Optimized object pool contention.
- Internally avoid cost of zeroing types that contain no references.
- Split `Promise(<T>).ContinueWith` methods without a `CancelationToken` parameter to avoid the cost of the token when it's not needed.
- Reduced memory and increased speed of `AsyncLazy<T>` when the factory is invoked.
- No longer pool memory allocated from `AsyncLazy<T>`.

Deprecated:

- `Promise(<T>).{Then, Catch, CatchCancelation}` APIs accepting a `CancelationToken` parameter. (Prefer `WaitAsync` followed by the same API without the token.)
- Deprecated `CancelationSource.{IsValid, TryCancel, TryDispose}`. (Prefer `!= default` and methods without `Try` prefix.)
- Deprecated `CancelationToken.{TryRegister, TryRegisterWithoutImmediateInvoke}`. (Prefer `CanBeCanceled` and methods without `Try` prefix.)
- Deprecated `Promise(<T>).Deferred.{IsValid*, Try*}` APIs. (Prefer `!= default`.)
- Deprecated `Promise(<T>).IsValid`.

Misc:

- Changed behavior of `CancelationSource.Cancel` to not throw if it's called more than once.
- Changed behavior of `CancelationSource`, `Promise(<T>).Deferred`, `Channel(Reader/Writer)` to throw `NullReferenceException` if it's default.